README.md, before:

No Google Chrome Flock Tracking (module for Omeka S)
====================================================

> __New versions of this module and support for Omeka S version 3.0 and above
> are available on [GitLab], which seems to respect users and privacy better
> than the previous repository.__

[No Google Chrome Flock Tracking] is a module for [Omeka S] that adds a HTTP
header to invite Google not to track visitors via the browser Chrome. Indeed,
with the new versions of Chrome and derivative browsers, Google steals directly
your browsing history even if you forbid it, creates a profile, and gives access
to it to any other tracking tool via a unique flock identifier.

Of course, this tracking is currently illegal in most of the countries, whatever
Google says, but now this header is required to invite Google to respect the law
(there will be a small fine in some years). More information to [clean up the web]
or [in French].

This module can be used in conjunction with the module [EU Cookie Bar], that
warns about the tracking by cookies when Google analytics or Facebook buttons
are used to steal data of your visitors.

This module is useless if you can access to the config of your server or if you
can add this in the Apache file ".htaccess" at the root of Omeka:

```.htaccess
<IfModule mod_headers.c>
    Header always set Permissions-Policy: interest-cohort=()
</IfModule>
```

This module simply adds these lines automatically if not present. Once
installed, the module can be removed. The check `<ifModule>` can be removed for
micro-optimization if you are sure that the Apache module Headers is enabled.
Of course, it is better to include it in the main config files of Apache. Nginx
and other servers are currently not supported. You can find details of config
for them [here].


Installation
------------

See general end user documentation for [installing a module].

* From the zip

Download the last release [NoGoogleChromeFlockTracking.zip] from the list of releases, and
uncompress it in the `modules` directory.

* From the source and for development

If the module was installed from the source, rename the name of the folder of
the module to `NoGoogleChromeFlockTracking`.


Warning
-------

Use it at your own risk.

It’s always recommended to backup your files and your databases and to check
your archives regularly so you can roll back if needed.


Troubleshooting
---------------

See online issues on the [module issues] page on GitLab.


License
-------

This module is published under the [CeCILL v2.1] license, compatible with
[GNU/GPL] and approved by [FSF] and [OSI].

This software is governed by the CeCILL license under French law and abiding by
the rules of distribution of free software. You can use, modify and/ or
redistribute the software under the terms of the CeCILL license as circulated by
CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the following URL "http://www.cecill.info".

As a counterpart to the access to the source code and rights to copy, modify and
redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only with a limited
warranty and the software’s author, the holder of the economic rights, and the
successive licensors have only limited liability.

In this respect, the user’s attention is drawn to the risks associated with
loading, using, modifying and/or developing or reproducing the software by the
user in light of its specific status of free software, that may mean that it is
complicated to manipulate, and that also therefore means that it is reserved for
developers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer knowledge.
Users are therefore encouraged to load and test the software’s suitability as
regards their requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems
and/or data to be ensured and, more generally, to use and operate it in the same
conditions as regards security.

The fact that you are presently reading this means that you have had knowledge
of the CeCILL license and that you accept its terms.


Copyright
---------

* Copyright Daniel Berthereau, 2021 (see [Daniel-KM] on GitLab)


[No Google Chrome Flock Tracking]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM/Omeka-S-module-NoGoogleChromeFlockTracking
[Omeka S]: https://omeka.org/s
[clean up the web]: https://cleanuptheweb.org
[in French]: https://framablog.org/2021/04/20/developpeurs-developpeuses-nettoyez-le-web
[here]: https://paramdeo.com/blog/opting-your-website-out-of-googles-floc-network
[EU Cookie Bar]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM/Omeka-S-module-EUCookieBar
[installing a module]: https://dev.omeka.org/docs/s/user-manual/modules/#installing-modules
[module issues]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM/Omeka-S-module-NoGoogleChromeFlockTracking/-/issues
[CeCILL v2.1]: https://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-en.html
[GNU/GPL]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html
[FSF]: https://www.fsf.org
[OSI]: https://opensource.org
[GitLab]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM
[Daniel-KM]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM "Daniel Berthereau"

Commit message:

Added a check of Apache module Headers.

README.md, after:

No Google Chrome Flock Tracking (module for Omeka S)
====================================================

> __New versions of this module and support for Omeka S version 3.0 and above
> are available on [GitLab], which seems to respect users and privacy better
> than the previous repository.__

[No Google Chrome Flock Tracking] is a module for [Omeka S] that adds a HTTP
header to invite Google not to track visitors via the browser Chrome. Indeed,
with the new versions of Chrome and derivative browsers, Google steals directly
your browsing history even if you forbid it, creates a profile, and gives access
to it to any other tracking tool via a unique flock identifier.

Of course, this tracking is currently illegal in most of the countries, whatever
Google says, but now this header is required to invite Google to respect the law
(there will be a small fine in some years). More information to [clean up the web]
or [in French].

This module can be used in conjunction with the module [EU Cookie Bar], that
warns about the tracking by cookies when Google analytics or Facebook buttons
are used to steal data of your visitors.

This module is useless if you can access to the config of your server or if you
can add this in the Apache file ".htaccess" at the root of Omeka:

```.htaccess
Header always set Permissions-Policy: interest-cohort=()
```

This module simply adds these lines automatically if not present, after some
checks. Once installed, the module can be removed. Of course, it is better to
include the line above in the main config files of Apache.

Important: The Apache module "headers" must be enabled first:

```sh
sudo a2enmod headers
sudo systemctl restart apache2
```

Nginx and other servers are currently not supported. You can find details of
config for them [here].

Note that header must be added to any response, not only to the Omeka ones: if
the assets (images, js, css…) are not protected, Google will add (or maybe not)
the site in the visitor profile anyway.


Installation
------------

See general end user documentation for [installing a module].

* From the zip

Download the last release [NoGoogleChromeFlockTracking.zip] from the list of releases, and
uncompress it in the `modules` directory.

* From the source and for development

If the module was installed from the source, rename the name of the folder of
the module to `NoGoogleChromeFlockTracking`.


Warning
-------

Use it at your own risk.

It’s always recommended to backup your files and your databases and to check
your archives regularly so you can roll back if needed.


Troubleshooting
---------------

See online issues on the [module issues] page on GitLab.


License
-------

This module is published under the [CeCILL v2.1] license, compatible with
[GNU/GPL] and approved by [FSF] and [OSI].

This software is governed by the CeCILL license under French law and abiding by
the rules of distribution of free software. You can use, modify and/ or
redistribute the software under the terms of the CeCILL license as circulated by
CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the following URL "http://www.cecill.info".

As a counterpart to the access to the source code and rights to copy, modify and
redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only with a limited
warranty and the software’s author, the holder of the economic rights, and the
successive licensors have only limited liability.

In this respect, the user’s attention is drawn to the risks associated with
loading, using, modifying and/or developing or reproducing the software by the
user in light of its specific status of free software, that may mean that it is
complicated to manipulate, and that also therefore means that it is reserved for
developers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer knowledge.
Users are therefore encouraged to load and test the software’s suitability as
regards their requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems
and/or data to be ensured and, more generally, to use and operate it in the same
conditions as regards security.

The fact that you are presently reading this means that you have had knowledge
of the CeCILL license and that you accept its terms.


Copyright
---------

* Copyright Daniel Berthereau, 2021 (see [Daniel-KM] on GitLab)


[No Google Chrome Flock Tracking]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM/Omeka-S-module-NoGoogleChromeFlockTracking
[Omeka S]: https://omeka.org/s
[clean up the web]: https://cleanuptheweb.org
[in French]: https://framablog.org/2021/04/20/developpeurs-developpeuses-nettoyez-le-web
[here]: https://paramdeo.com/blog/opting-your-website-out-of-googles-floc-network
[EU Cookie Bar]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM/Omeka-S-module-EUCookieBar
[installing a module]: https://dev.omeka.org/docs/s/user-manual/modules/#installing-modules
[module issues]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM/Omeka-S-module-NoGoogleChromeFlockTracking/-/issues
[CeCILL v2.1]: https://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-en.html
[GNU/GPL]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html
[FSF]: https://www.fsf.org
[OSI]: https://opensource.org
[GitLab]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM
[Daniel-KM]: https://gitlab.com/Daniel-KM "Daniel Berthereau"
